Let's see how we can create a conditional factor based on momentum and skew.
We first might want to convert both momentum and skew to ranks,
since ranks are generally more stable and more robust to outliers.
Notice though, that skew is a reversal or mean-reversion signal.
So, we want to rank the skew in reverse order.
Think about this in the context of our definition of enhanced momentum,
and work out for yourself a few examples of why this works.
That is, if our stock universe had 100 stocks,
then the stock with the smallest skew would have the rank of 100,
whereas the stock with the largest skew would have a rank of one.
The momentum factor would be ranked as usual,
where the most negative return is given a rank of one,
and the most positive return has a rank of 100.
If we multiply the rank of momentum times the reverse rank of skew,
we will have the joint factor.
The smallest alpha values would translate into the largest short positions,
and the largest alpha values would translate into the largest long positions.